Explain why we need a DataBase Management System (DBMS) instead of a spreadsheet?
Databases can handle large amounts of data that cannot be managed in a spreadsheet.Databases are stored more efficiently. While spreadsheet exist, databases do not have records.
A spreadsheet is stored in a computer's random access memory while it is being use.

What are the advantages / disadvantages of using a DBMS (and specifically Postgres) compared to a spreadsheet (specifically MS Excel)?
Spreadsheets are incredible for numeric and textual content values in enormously low quantity. Databases additionally expertly take care of numeric and textual content values
however can without difficulty contain different kinds of information, inclusive of pictures and documents. Databases also can accommodate excessive quantity and massive report 
length statistics downloads like the ones from GPS devices,cameras, drones, and different series devices.
Advantages of DMBS: can be used by multiple users at the same time.DMBS can be accessed from different tools
Disadvantages of DBMS: High cost, Database Error
Difference between DBMS and Spreadsheet :
DBMS:It can do simple calculations.Efficient data handling.
Spreadsheet:It can do simple data organizing and selecting.Inefficient data handling.

Questionnaire
What kind of spatial and thematic data you store?
raster, vector and height data are stored. These are also kept as 3D objects. Attribute information, spatial information and descriptive information are stored.

Do you use a DBMS? If so, which one(s)?
Yes,ArcGIS survey database is used. In addition, postGIS, PostgreSQL, and msSQL survey are used in vector data.

Is it a relational database? If so how many tables do you have?
We use PostgreSQL and msSQL as relational databases.Different tables are kept for each project, so there are too many tables to count.

Why do you think the use of DBMS is important? What is the main benefit to your operation/product/daily use?
It provides convenience by accessing and collecting our own data very quickly and by collecting them under a single roof. It facilitates the management of data. It also
provides great benefits in finding and presenting the data we want. It transforms it from a dispersed structure to a centralized structure.
Also, we can see which operator has made and made what kind of changes.

What do you think is the main source of trouble in using a DBMS?
When the system is installed regularly and the structures are defined regularly, there is no problem.If we are trying to do a quick job, that is, if we want to complete
it in a short time, it will be a problem.

One final question for those who use a DBMS:
Assume you have a team of Geomatics Engineers. Consider that employee A has very good skills in databases and prgramming and employee B does not possess these skills.
Considering that you have the financial freedom and that you paying X TL to employee B; how much would you pay to employee A? 
A geomatics engineer who is knowledgeable about DBMS will earn a higher salary than a traditional geomatics engineer.
If the geomatics engineer receives x salary, our geomatics engineer who knows DBMS will receive between x+1500-2000.




